=head1 NAME

journal-triggerd - Runs trigger on journal messages

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<journal-triggerd>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<journal-triggerd> is a small daemon that runs in the background, listening to
systemd(1)'s journal, and will run "triggers" (i.e. exec a command line) when
certain messages are added.

You can define which messages to listen for, and what to run when such messages
are added to the journal, by defining rules.

=head1 RULES

Rules are defined in (UTF8 encoded) text files, whose names must end with I<.rule>
and placed in I</etc/journal-triggerd.rules>

Any file whose name not end in I<.rule> will be ignored. Files are not processed
in any defined order, neither will rules be processed in any given order; Not
that it should matter, since all rules are always processed against every new
message added to the journal.

A rule is composed of two things : a filter, used to match messages added to the
journal, and a trigger, to be run when match occurs.

=head2 RULE FILE FORMAT

Rule files have a syntax similar to that of conf/INI files, or systemd's unit
files. A section [Rule] must exist, where filter/trigger be defined.

The trigger is simply a command line, define under option I<trigger>

A filter can be either a list of conditions to match, or use boolean logic to
create more complex filtering. For the former, no option under [Rule] is needed,
simply create a section [Filter] and define the conditions there; See
L<CONDITIONS> below for more.

To create more complex filters, an option I<filer> can be set under [Rule] and
must be an expression that can make use of parenthesis, B<AND>, B<OR> and B<NOT>
as well as named filters/groups.

Those names are case-sensitive names of sections that must exist in the file,
where a list of conditions will be defined.

For example, one could use:
    filter=foobar AND (foo OR bar) AND NOT barfoo

And there must be sections [foobar], [foo], [bar], and [barfoo] defined in the
rule file, all of which defining one or more conditions to be matched.

It is of course possible to only use one group name, i.e. when no option
I<filter> is set, it defaults to I<filter=Filter>

=head2 DEFINE MULTIPLE RULES IN ONE FILE

As a facility it is possible to define multiple rules from a single file, thus
allowing to use the same groups in different filters. To do so, simply create an
option I<filterXXX> with a matching I<triggerXXX>

For example:
    [Rule]
    filter_foo=foo AND NOT foobar
    trigger_foo=foobar --foo
    filter_bar=bar AND NOT foobar
    trigger_bar=foobar --bar
    filter=foobar AND (foo OR bar)
    trigger=foobar --foobar

=head2 CONDITIONS

The heart of a filter is a group of conditions, defined simply as a section in
the rule file. All conditions are simply the name of a field from the journal,
an optional comparison operator before the required equal sign ('='), and the
value to compare with.

The supported operators are :

=over

=item B<Exact match: =>

The field must be of the specified value.

=item B<Pattern match: ?>

You can use '*' and '?' wildcards with similar semantics as the standard glob(3)
functions: '*' matches an arbitrary, possibly empty, string, '?' matches an
arbitrary character.

Note that in contrast to glob(), the '/' character can be matched by the
wildcards, there are no '[...]' character ranges and '*' and '?' can not be
escaped to include them literally in a pattern.

=item B<Lesser match: E<lt>>

The value must be an integer, the value of the field will also be parsed as an
integer value, and must be less than or equal to the specified value to match.

=item B<Greater match: E<gt>>

The value must be an integer, the value of the field will also be parsed as an
integer value, and must be greater than or equal to the specified value to match.

=back

You can specify as many conditions as you want in each group; All will need to
be a match for the entire group to be a match. You can specify conditions on the
same field multiple times.

It is also possible to prefix the comparison operator with a '!' in order to
inverse the match, i.e. the field shall not match the condition for it to be a
match.

Example:
    [Filter]
    PRIORITYE<lt>=3
    MESSAGE!=Some message to ignore
    MESSAGE!=Another message to ignore

=head1 BUGS

They're probably crawling somewhere in there... if you happen to catch one,
(or more) report it and I'll do my best to squash it.

=head1 REPOSITORY

You can find the latest source code of B<journal-triggerd> as well as report
bugs and/or suggest features on its GitHub repository, available at
L<https://github.com/jjk-jacky/journal-triggerd>

=head1 AUTHORS

=over

=item Olivier Brunel <jjk AT jjacky DOT com>

=back
